# Evaluation - Read Mapping

We assume your current directory points to this directory ([`read_mapping`](./))

## Organization

Each directory includes the scripts to run RawHash, UNCALLED, Sigmap, and minimap2 for the corresponding dataset where the dataset name is specified in the directory name.

After running minimap2, each directory should include `true_mappings.paf` that can be used as the ground truth mapping information for the corresponding dataset.

After running RawHash, UNCALLED, and Sigmap, each directory should include subdirectories called `rawhash`, `uncalled`, and `sigmap`, which include the corresponding mapping output of each tool in `PAF` format.

### Comparing RawHash to UNCALLED and Sigmap

Each directory includes a subdirectory called `comparison` where there are three scripts: `0_run.sh`, `1_generate_results.sh`, and `2_output_results.sh`. These scripts use the output generated by each tool for a certain dataset to compare them each other. In each directory, we provide the README files that show how to use these scripts.

## Running and comparing the tools

### d1_sars-cov-2_r94

Please read the [README](./d1_sars-cov-2_r94/README.md) file to run and compare the tools for this dataset.

To start mapping each tool, enter [d1_sars-cov-2_r94](./d1_sars-cov-2_r94/)

```bash
cd ./d1_sars-cov-2_r94
```

### d2_ecoli_r94

Please read the [README](./d2_ecoli_r94/README.md) file to run and compare the tools for this dataset.

To start mapping each tool, enter [d2_ecoli_r94](./d2_ecoli_r94/)

```bash
cd ./d2_ecoli_r94
```

### d3_yeast_r94

Please read the [README](./d3_yeast_r94/README.md) file to run and compare the tools for this dataset.

To start mapping each tool, enter [d3_yeast_r94](./d3_yeast_r94/)

```bash
cd ./d3_yeast_r94
```

### d4_green_algae_r94

Please read the [README](./d4_green_algae_r94/README.md) file to run and compare the tools for this dataset.

To start mapping each tool, enter [d4_green_algae_r94](./d4_green_algae_r94/)

```bash
cd ./d4_green_algae_r94
```

### d5_human_na12878_r94

Please read the [README](./d5_human_na12878_r94/README.md) file to run and compare the tools for this dataset.

To start mapping each tool, enter [d5_human_na12878_r94](./d5_human_na12878_r94/)

```bash
cd ./d5_human_na12878_r94
```
